Position Hold wiki page (#494)
betaflight/betaflight.com: docs/wiki/guides/current/Position-Hold-v4-6.md

# Position Hold 4.6

Betaflight 4.6 introduces Altitude Hold and Position Hold

When used together, these features allow the pilot to hit a switch and the aircraft will hover at a fixed location and constant altitude, in Angle Mode. The sticks can then be used to ajust altitude and location. A GPS is essential, and a Magnetometer is strongly recommended.

## Quick-Start

> - Include `ALT_HOLD_MODE` and `POS_HOLD_MODE` in your firmware build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Include `ALTITUDE_HOLD` and `POSITION_HOLD` in your firmware build.
```

Author: THanks!

- Ensure your GPS is working properly
- Ideally, include a Magnetometer and verify that it is working properly
- Set the hover throttle value accurately
- Enable both Altitude Hold and Position Hold on the same Mode switch

> - Hover the quad and test carefully; the aircraft will be in Angle mode and stick responses will be different from usual.

Reviewer 2: I've seen questions about how to tune angle-mode rates. is there a document and should it be linked here?

Author: Probably should have a document about Angle and Horizon modes, generally, where we could include tuning, rates and info about feedforward in Angle mode and how Horizon mode works.  Angle mode is a lot different now than it was.

## Altitude Hold

Altitude Hold can be installed and tested independently of Position Hold.

> Altitude Hold is intended to keep the quad at a constant altitude, automatically adjusting the throttle as required. The throttle must either be set to zero, or put somewhere within a deadband either side of the normal hover point, for the altitude to be kept stable. The target altitude can be adjusted up or down by putting the throttle above, or below, the deadband.

Reviewer 3: 'either be set to zero' - this is so counterintuitive

Author: It's how the code currently works - and the guide should explain how it works.
Most pilots get accustomed to this behaviour fairly quickly.
It's definitely nice to be able to quickly jam throttle to zero and be sure the quad won't climb or fall.  Otherwise if  the throttle deadband is configured to be fairly narrow, and the pilot in a hurry to hold altitude, they can accidentally find the quad climbing or descending because throttle was accidentally outside deadband.
Being able to just jam throttle to zero and have it reliably still is actually very handy, and worth the inconsistency.

If used 'alone' - i.e. without Position Hold, the aircraft's altitude should be stable, but there will be NO position stability; roll, pitch and yaw controls will work as they 'normally' do, and the craft will always be in Angle mode.

Reliable altitude hold requires a good altitude source. A GPS alone is sufficient, but needs lot of satellites, and some of them must be low to the horizon. Sometimes enabling a Barometer will improve altitude estimation. The accuracy and stability of the Altitude estimate can be checked in the Congfigurator Sensors tab. The default PIDs are intended for GPS only configurations, and may be a bit aggressive if a fast Barometer is added.

The pilot must configure a mode switch to enable Altitude Hold in Configurator's Modes tab.

When active, if the throttle is kept within a deadband around the normal hover throttle stick position, the aircraft should maintain constant altitude.

> If the pilot wants to adjust the altitude to a higher value, they should bring the throttle above the deadband zone, and vice versa. The aircraft responds by climbing at a velocity that is proportional to stick position. At full throttle, the aircraft will climb at a steady rate of only 5m/s. If throttle is below the deadband, the aircraft will descend at a steady rate.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the pilot wants to adjust the altitude to a higher value, they should bring the throttle above the deadband zone, and vice versa. The aircraft responds by climbing at a velocity that is proportional to stick position. At full throttle, the aircraft will climb at a steady rate defined in alt_hold_adjust_rate, which is 5m/s by default. If throttle is below the deadband, the aircraft will descend with same logic.
```

Author: Thanks, updated

- The aircraft cannot be armed in Position Hold or Altitude Hold.
- Position Hold will not work:
  - if there is no GPS 3D fix.
  - if there is no Mag, and the GPS has not yet provided a workable heading because the aircraft has not been flown cleanly pitched forward for long enough, or not fast enough
  - when there is a Mag, and it is needed because the GPS Heading is not available as a fallback (see above), or the Mag is 'not healthy', ie broken, or has never been calibrated.

> - A `POS HOLD FAIL` message will appear in the OSD if Position Hold is attempted and any of the above checks fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- a `POS HOLD FAIL` message will appear in the OSD if Position Hold is attempted and any of the above checks fail.
```

Author: See next commit for a workaround here.
